we have we have a relatively
sophisticated audience and so I don't
feel being I'm being too techie if I say
what does that remind you of 14 that's
the most common ask question we have
well I don't I know what a common
question that people would like to add
if I have pride you go to the bathroom
could you explain it oh oh okay
well first of all this is of course the
end result of a device of perhaps one of
the most difficult engineering feats
that NASA had to face finally I think it
was the Jim McDivitt flight in four days
when they could no longer ignore this
problem up to that time they could
ignore it but when Jim and Ed White went
up for four days obviously they had to
do something so it was given to John
Young and to do the testing to this they
tried early ideas they tried some
typical force that didn't work out too
well
they tried magnetism in a tube of some
sort that didn't work out the iron
filings not some went to a quite a bit
of Engineering to find evolve into this
very simple what we call bag now you can
imagine and let's set the scene it's
five days into Gemini 7 and we're on 14
days and I'm with Frank Borman who is
very regular I have managed the whole
Frank wall for five days Renato Miley
Bobby Frank says Jim the time has come
and I said Frank we only have nine more
days to go I think that you can last
what but Martha says no and so he gets
on one of these devices and I look very
closely the other direction and there is
where we find out that in the space
program position is everything in life
because if you don't positions this
thing correctly we're all of deep
trouble now I don't want to go into
details on this Jim but you know there's
zero gravity in space and so yeah
gravity does not help the things work
and so NASA is very conveniently put a
little finger device in here to help
things along now also we've been accused
quite a bit of spending too much money
in the space program and I want to let
you know that we do not
do that this is what NASA has provided
after everything is done you know I
think in the airline industry you call
them wet wipes or something like that
but I know we are really saving money on
this one
and finally the Environmental Protection
Agency will not allow us to throw
anything over the side and so therefore
we have to kill all the bacteria
otherwise you know three days now it
might have a serious explosion of a
spacecraft and so this blue material is
is a disinfectant that will kill the
bacterium but what you have to do is to
mix it thoroughly with the material
inside and you can imagine that well you
really know if you have a good buddy or
not if you have your finished you hand
it's here your plate paint and say look
I do get over here a woman did to me
that was that I had a Roomba that oxygen
must return be useful in occasions like
that they were they were admittedly they
were used on Apollo 17 to see the
biggest thing the thing enjoy use when
you're lucky that I use it for the face
I used to conserve I see gentlemen were
the most difficult part of it was
detachedly crustaceans I didn't beg
material that was on the body and
particularly if they're number two was
free clothing and that's when you run
the risk of number two hitting a fan and
I know when NASA had done I think
correctly in their engineering they put
a glue on here that was a little bit too
- bluey too tight and if you had any
amount of hair at all there is just
about kills you don't forget to the
distinction
meanwhile
you